## Introduction
This lab provides practice scenarios to help prepare you for the Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) exam. You will be presented with tasks to complete, as well as server(s) and/or an existing Kubernetes cluster to complete them in. You will need to use your knowledge of Kubernetes to successfully complete the provided tasks, much like you would on the real CKAD exam. Good luck!

## Lab Environment
Use the provided environment to complete the tasks detailed in the learning objectives.

You can access all components of the cluster from the CLI server. The control plane server is k8s-control, and the worker is k8s-worker1. If you need to log in to the control plane server, for example, just use ssh k8s-control from the CLI server.

You can also use kubectl from the CLI server, control plane node, or worker to interact with the cluster. In order to use kubectl from the CLI server, you will need to select the acgk8s cluster to interact with, like so: kubectl config use-context acgk8s.

kubectl is aliased to k, and Kubernetes autocompletion is enabled. You can use the k alias like so: k get pods.

This lab includes a verification script to help you determine whether you have completed the objectives successfully. You can run the verification script with /home/cloud_user/verify.sh.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Switch to the acgk8s cluster context:
```shell
kubectl config use-context acgk8s
```
Create a ConfigMap to Store an haproxy Config File
Create the ConfigMap:
```shell
vi haproxy-config.yml
```
Add the following to create a ConfigMap called haproxy-config in the default Namespace to store the haproxy configuration for an haproxy ambassador container. Use a key called haproxy.cfg to store the contents of the haproxy configuration file:

Note: When copying and pasting code into Vim from the lab guide, first enter :set paste (and then i to enter insert mode) to avoid adding unnecessary spaces and hashes. To save and quit the file, press Escape followed by :wq. To exit the file without saving, press Escape followed by :q!.
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: haproxy-config
data:
  haproxy.cfg: |
    frontend ambassador
      bind *:7171
      default_backend api_svc
    backend api_svc
      server svc api-svc:8181
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Create the ConfigMap with kubectl apply:
```shell
kubectl apply -f haproxy-config.yml
```
Run the verification script to ensure you completed the objective:
```shell
~/verify.sh
```
Update a Service to Serve on a New Port
Edit the Service:
```shell
kubectl edit svc api-svc
```
Scroll down to the ports section of the Service spec. Change the Service port from 7171 to 8181:

```shell
  ports:
  - port: 8181
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Check the logs for the client Pod. It should now be unable to reach the Service since it is still attempting to use the old port:
```shell
kubectl logs client
```
You will see some success messages in the output, but then you will see some timeout messages that occurred after you made the change to the port.

Run the verification script to ensure you completed the objective:
```shell
~/verify.sh
```
Reconfigure a Pod to Use an haproxy Ambassador Container
Edit the client Pod manifest:
```shell
vi client.yml
```
Change the host referenced in the main container's command from api-svc:7171 to localhost:7171:
```shell
  containers:
  - name: main
    image: radial/busyboxplus:curl
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'while true; do curl -m 3 localhost:7171; sleep 5; done']
```
Add the ambassador container with the mounted ConfigMap. The final version of the manifest should look like this:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: client
spec:
  containers:
  - name: main
    image: radial/busyboxplus:curl
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'while true; do curl -m 3 localhost:7171; sleep 5; done']
  - name: ambassador
    image: haproxy:2.4
    volumeMounts:
    - name: haproxy-config
      mountPath: /usr/local/etc/haproxy/
  volumes:
  - name: haproxy-config
    configMap:
      name: haproxy-config
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Delete the client Pod. For the purpose of this lab, it is okay to use --force to quickly delete the Pod:
```shell
kubectl delete pod client --force
```
Re-create the Pod:
```shell
kubectl apply -f client.yml
```
Check the Pod status:
```shell
kubectl get pod client
```
You should see both containers are ready, and the Pod is in the Running STATUS.

Check the logs for the main container:
```shell
kubectl logs client -c main
```
You should see successful responses from the API.

Run the verification script to ensure you completed the objective:
```shell
~/verify.sh
```
