## Introduction
This lab provides practice scenarios to help prepare you for the Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) exam. You will be presented with tasks to complete, as well as server(s) and/or an existing Kubernetes cluster to complete them in. You will need to use your knowledge of Kubernetes to successfully complete the provided tasks, much like you would on the real CKAD exam. Good luck!

## Lab Environment
Use the provided environment to complete the tasks detailed in the learning objectives.

You can access a Docker installation and necessary lab components from the CLI server.

This lab includes a verification script to help you determine whether you have completed the objectives successfully. You can run the verification script with /home/cloud_user/verify.sh.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Create a Dockerfile
Change directory to the project directory:
```shell
cd /home/cloud_user/buzz
```
Create the Dockerfile:
```shell
vi Dockerfile
```
Add the following to create the Dockerfile. 

The file should use the busybox:1.34.1 image as the baseline for the new image.

Configure the Dockerfile to place data1.txt from the buzz directory into the resulting container image at /etc/data/mainData.txt.

Add data2.txt to the container image at /etc/data/data2.txt, and add data3.txt to the container image at /etc/data/data3.txt:

Note: When copying and pasting code into Vim from the lab guide, first enter :set paste (and then i to enter insert mode) to avoid adding unnecessary spaces and hashes. To save and quit the file, press Escape followed by :wq. To exit the file without saving, press Escape followed by :q!.
```shell
FROM busybox:1.34.1

ADD data1.txt /etc/data/mainData.txt
ADD data2.txt /etc/data/
ADD data3.txt /etc/data/
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Run the verification script to ensure you completed the objective:
```shell
~/verify.sh
```
Build and Save a Container Image
Build a container image from the Dockerfile:
```shell
docker build -t buzz:1 .
```
Save an archived copy of the image:
```shell
docker save -o /home/cloud_user/buzz_1.tar buzz:1
```
Review the files in the /home/cloud_user/ directory:
```shell
ls /home/cloud_user/
```
You should see the buzz_1.tar file there.

Run the verification script to ensure you completed the objective:
```shell
~/verify.sh
```
