# Using Container Volume Storage in Kubernetes
## Introduction
Kubernetes offers a variety of tools to help you manage external storage for your containers. In this lab, you will have a chance to work with Kubernetes storage volumes, in the form of both ephemeral volumes and Persistent Volumes.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Add an Ephemeral Volume
Begin by editing the application's Deployment:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment app-processing
```
Scroll down to the Deployment's Pod template. Under the Pod template, note the Pod specification. Add the following (under terminationMessagePolicy) to create the ephemeral storage volume with the volume mount.

Note: When copying and pasting code into Vim from the lab guide, first enter :set paste (and then i to enter insert mode) to avoid adding unnecessary spaces and hashes. To save and quit the file, press Escape followed by :wq. To exit the file without saving, press Escape followed by :q!.
```shell
            volumeMounts:
            - name: temp
              mountPath: /tempdata
          volumes:
          - name: temp
            emptyDir: {}
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes and to update the Deployment.
Add a Persistent Volume
Create the PersistentVolume.
```shell
vi hostdata-pv.yml
```
Add the following to create the PersistentVolume:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: hostdata-pv
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 1Gi
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: host
  hostPath:
    path: /etc/voldata
    type: Directory
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Apply the changes to create the volume:
```shell
kubectl apply -f hostdata-pv.yml
```
Create a PersistentVolumeClaim:
```shell
vi hostdata-pvc.yml
```
Add the following to create the PersistentVolumeClaim that will bind to the PersistentVolume:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: hostdata-pvc
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Mi
  storageClassName: host
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Create the claim:
```shell
kubectl apply -f hostdata-pvc.yml
```
Verify that the PersistentVolumeClaim is bound to the PersistentVolume:
```shell
kubectl get pvc hostdata-pvc
```
Edit the Deployment, and mount the PersistentVolumeClaim to the container:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment app-processing
```
Scroll down to the volume spec. Under volumes, add the hostdata volume:
```shell
volumes:
- name: temp
  emptyDir: {}
- name: hostdata
  persistentVolumeClaim:
    claimName: hostdata-pvc
```
Scroll up, and under volumeMounts, mount the new volume to the container:
```shell
        volumeMounts:
        - name: temp
          mountPath: /tempdata
        - name: hostdata
          mountPath: /data
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes and update the Deployment.

Check the Pod status:
```shell
kubectl get pods
```
You should see that your new Pod for the Deployment is up and running.

Copy the name of the active Deployment Pod. The name will begin with app-processing-, but it will be the Pod that is in the Running status — not the Terminating status. Use the Pod name to check the Pod's container logs:
```shell
kubectl logs $POD_NAME
```
If everything is set up correctly, you should see the Hive Key data in the Pod's logs.
