# Advanced Rollout with Kubernetes Deployments
The basic features of Kubernetes can be used to implement advanced Deployment strategies such as blue/green Deployments. In this lab, you will have the opportunity to try your hand at implementing these strategies in Kubernetes.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Perform a Rolling Update
Check the Deployment configuration:
```shell
kubectl describe deployment web-frontend -n hive
```
Take note of the container's name, in this case, nginx.

Perform a rolling update on the Deployment. You will include the container name you noted before:
```shell
kubectl set image deployment.v1.apps/web-frontend -n hive nginx=nginx:1.16.1
```
Check the status of the rollout:
```shell
kubectl rollout status deployment/web-frontend -n hive
```
You should be able to see the status of the rollout while it occurs.

Check the Deployment's Pods in the hive Namespace:
```shell
kubectl get pods -n hive
```
You should see that the Deployment's Pods are now running the new image version.

Perform a Blue/Green Deployment
Make a copy of the blue Deployment manifest, changing the name so that it is for a green Deployment:
```shell
cp internal-api-blue.yml internal-api-green.yml
```
Edit the green Deployment manifest:
```shell
vi internal-api-green.yml
```
Make the following changes to the manifest:

Change the Deployment's name to internal-api-green.
Change the color value under matchLabels and under template to green.
Change the image to linuxacademycontent/ckad-nginx:green.
The manifest should now look like this:
```shell
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: internal-api-green
  namespace: hive
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: internal-api
      color: green
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: internal-api
        color: green
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: linuxacademycontent/ckad-nginx:green
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Create the green Deployment.
```shell
kubectl apply -f internal-api-green.yml
```
Check the green Deployment status:
```shell
kubectl get deployments -n hive
```
Obtain a list of Pods in the hive Namespace:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n hive -o wide
```
Copy the IP address for the Pod that is part of the green Deployment.

Use the green Deployment Pod's IP address to test the Pod directly:
```shell
curl <internal-api-green Pod IP address>
```
You should see the response, I'm green!

Edit the Service. You will be updating the Service so that it points to the green Deployment:
```shell
kubectl edit svc api-svc -n hive
```
Scroll down to the selector. Change the selector so that the Service directs traffic to the green Deployment's Pod:
```shell
  selector:
    app: internal-api
    color: green
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Get the Service's CLUSTER-IP address:
```shell
kubectl get svc api-svc -n hive
```
Use the IP address to test the Service. The output should come from the green Pod:
```shell
curl <api-svc CLUSTER-IP address>
```
You should see the response, I'm green!
