# Debugging a Kubernetes Application
## Introduction
Debugging is an essential skill for a Kubernetes application developer. This lab will present you with some debugging challenges. You will get a chance to practice your troubleshooting skills as you identify and solve problems with a Kubernetes app.

Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Fix a Broken Deployment
Check the status of all Pods in the cluster:
```shell
kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
```
You should see that the Pods from the auth-frontend Deployment in the comb Namespace do not have a STATUS of Running. This is the Deployment that needs to be fixed.

Gather some details about the Deployment:
```shell
kubectl describe deployment auth-frontend -n comb
```
Note that there seems to be a mistake in the image tag. There is a z on the end of the version number. This is the issue that needs to be corrected.

Edit the Deployment:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment auth-frontend -n comb
```
Scroll down and fix the image tag by removing the z. It should now look like this:
```shell
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: nginx:1.20.1
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Check the status of the Pods. They should be in the Running status:
```shell
kubectl get pods -n comb
```
Fix an Application That Is Not Receiving User Traffic
Check the status of the users-rest Deployment:
```shell
kubectl get deployment users-rest -n hive
```
Note that none of the replicas are marked as READY.

Check the Pod status:
```shell
kubectl get pods -n hive
```
The Pod status shows that the Pods are Running, but the containers are not ready (0/1).

Look at the Deployment details:
```shell
kubectl describe deployment users-rest -n hive
```
Note that the readiness probe seems to be using the wrong port. The container listens on port 80, but the readiness probe is checking port 8080. This is the issue you need to fix.

Edit the Deployment:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment users-rest -n hive
```
Scroll down and change the port used by the readiness probe from 8080 to 80. It should now look like this:
```shell
        readinessProbe:
          failureThreshold: 3
          httpGet:
            path: /
            port: 80
 ```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Check the Deployment status again:
```shell
kubectl get deployment users-rest -n hive
```
All of the replicas should become ready (note that it might take a few moments).
