# Managing Resource Usage in Kubernetes
## Introduction
Kubernetes offers a variety of features that can help you control how resources are allocated in your cluster. This lab will allow you to build your experience with some of these features by solving problems that might arise in a real-world cluster.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Configure Resource Requests for a Deployment
Edit the royal-jelly Deployment:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment royal-jelly -n hive
```
Scroll down to the container specification, and add the following resource requests (after terminationMessagePolicy):

Note: When copying and pasting code into Vim from the lab guide, first enter :set paste (and then i to enter insert mode) to avoid adding unnecessary spaces and hashes. To save and quit the file, press Escape followed by :wq. To exit the file without saving, press Escape followed by :q!.
```shell
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 128Mi
            cpu: 250m
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Verify the Deployment status:
```shell
kubectl get deployment royal-jelly -n hive
```
You should see 3/3 Pods in the READY status.

Configure Resource Limits for a Deployment
Edit the royal-jelly Deployment again:
```shell
kubectl edit deployment royal-jelly -n hive
```
Under the resource requests you just added, add resource limits:
```shell
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 128Mi
            cpu: 250m
          limits:
            memory: 256Mi
            cpu: 500m
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Again, verify the Deployment status:
```shell
kubectl get deployment royal-jelly -n hive
```
You should see the Deployment is up and running, as expected.

Create a ResourceQuota for a Namespace
Create a ResourceQuota in the hive Namespace:
```shell
vi hive-resourcequota.yml
```
Add the following to the file:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  name: hive-resourcequota
  namespace: hive
spec:
  hard:
    requests.memory: 1Gi
    requests.cpu: "1"
    limits.memory: 2Gi
    limits.cpu: "2"
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Create the ResourceQuota with kubectl apply:
```shell
kubectl apply -f hive-resourcequota.yml
```
Get a list of ResourceQuotas in the hive Namespace to ensure everything is working:
```shell
kubectl get resourcequota -n hive
```
You should see the hive-resourcequota as well as some additional information indicating that you have successfully created the ResourceQuota.
