# Exposing a Kubernetes Application with Services and Ingress
## Introduction
Many applications are built to serve the outside world. As such, managing external access to an application is a crucial part of Kubernetes application design. In this lab, you will have the opportunity to use Services and Ingress to expose an application to the outside world.

## Solution
Log in to the server using the credentials provided:
```shell
ssh cloud_user@<PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS>
```
Create a Service to Expose the Application
Obtain a list of Pods in the hive Namespace, and take note of the labels on the Pods associated with the hive-io-frontend Deployment:
```shell
kubectl get pods -n hive --show-labels
```
You should see you have 2 Pods associated with the hive.io application.

Create a YAML manifest for the Service:
```shell
vi hive-io-frontend-svc.yml
```
Add the following text to the manifest:

Note: When copying and pasting code into Vim from the lab guide, first enter :set paste (and then i to enter insert mode) to avoid adding unnecessary spaces and hashes. To save and quit the file, press Escape followed by :wq. To exit the file without saving, press Escape followed by :q!.
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hive-io-frontend-svc
  namespace: hive
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    app: hive-io-frontend
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8080
      targetPort: 80
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Use kubectl apply to create the Service:
```shell
kubectl apply -f hive-io-frontend-svc.yml
```
Get the Service's CLUSTER-IP address, and copy it:
```shell
kubectl get svc hive-io-frontend-svc -n hive
```
Use the hive-io-frontend-svc CLUSTER-IP address you just copied to test the Service on port 8080:
```shell
curl <CLUSTER-IP>:8080
```
You should see the Welcome to HiveCorp! message indicating the Service is working.

Expose the Application Externally Using an Ingress
Create a YAML file for the Ingress object:
```shell
vi hive-io-frontend-ingress.yml
```
Add the following to create the Ingress object:
```shell
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: hive-io-frontend-ingress
  namespace: hive
spec:
  ingressClassName: nginx
  rules:
  - host: hive.io
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: hive-io-frontend-svc
            port:
              number: 8080
```
Type ESC followed by :wq to save your changes.

Use kubectl apply to create the Ingress:
```shell
kubectl apply -f hive-io-frontend-ingress.yml
```
Test your Ingress:
```shell
curl -L hive.io
```
You should see the HTML code for the application.
